add ringbuffer queue recipe (#180)
JoshOrndorff/recipes: text/3-entrees/storage-api/ringbuffer.md

}
```

We specify a default type for `Index` and define it as `u16` to allow for 65536 entries in the ringbuffer per default. We also add the `WrappingOps` and `From<u8>` type bounds to enable the kind of operations we need in our implementation. More details in the [implementation](#implementation) section, especially in the [`WrappingOps`](#wrapping_ops) subsection.

## Implementation of the RingBuffer <a name = "implementation"></a>
Now that we have the type definition for `RingBufferTransient` we need to write the implementation.

### Instantiating the Transient
First we need to specify how to create a new instance by providing a `new` function:

```rust, ignore
impl<Item, B, M, Index> RingBufferTransient<Item, B, M, Index>
where // ... same where clause as the type, elided here
{
	pub fn new() -> RingBufferTransient<Item, B, M, Index> {
		let (start, end) = B::get();
		RingBufferTransient {
			start, end, _phantom: PhantomData,
		}
	}
}
```

Here we access the bounds stored in storage to initialize the transient.

_Aside: Of course we could also provide a `with_bounds` function that takes the bounds as a parameter. Feel free to add that function as an exercise._

> _Second Aside: This `B::get()` is one of the reasons for specifying the `Query` associated type on the `StorageValue` type constraint._

Reviewer: I love **occasional and well-timed** breaks like this. Nicely done.

### Implementing the `RingBufferTrait`
We will now implement the `RingBufferTrait`:

```rust, ignore
impl<Item, B, M, Index> RingBufferTrait<Item> for RingBufferTransient<Item, B, M, Index>
where // same as the struct definition
	Item: Codec + EncodeLike,
	B: StorageValue<(Index, Index), Query = (Index, Index)>,
	M: StorageMap<Index, Item, Query = Item>,
	Index: Codec + EncodeLike + Eq + WrappingOps + From<u8> + Copy,
{
	fn commit(&self) {
		B::put((self.start, self.end));
	}
```

> `commit` just consists of putting the potentially changed bounds into storage. You will notice that we don't update the bounds storage when changing them in the other functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`commit` just consists of putting the potentially changed bounds into storage. You will notice that we don't update the bounds' storage when changing them in the other functions.
```

```rust, ignore
	fn is_empty(&self) -> bool {
		self.start == self.end
	}
```

The `is_empty` function just checks whether the start and end bounds have the same value to determine whether the queue is empty, thus avoiding expensive storage accesses. This means we need to uphold the corresponding invariant in the other (notably the `push`) functions.

```rust, ignore
	fn push(&mut self, item: Item) {
		M::insert(self.end, item);
		// this will intentionally overflow and wrap around when bonds_end
		// reaches `Index::max_value` because we want a ringbuffer.
		let next_index = self.end.wrapping_add(1.into());
		if next_index == self.start {
			// queue presents as empty but is not
			// --> overwrite the oldest item in the FIFO ringbuffer
			self.start = self.start.wrapping_add(1.into());
		}
		self.end = next_index;
	}
```

> In the `push` function we insert the pushed `item` into the map and calculate the new bounds by using the `wrapping_add` function. This way our ringbuffer will wrap around when reaching `max_value` of the `Index` type. This is why we need the `WrappingOps` type trait for `Index`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `push` function, we insert the pushed `item` into the map and calculate the new bounds by using the `wrapping_add` function. This way our ringbuffer will wrap around when reaching `max_value` of the `Index` type. This is why we need the `WrappingOps` type trait for `Index`.
```

The `if` is necessary because we need to keep the invariant that `start == end` means that the queue is empty, otherwise we would need to keep track of this state separately. We thus "toss away" the oldest item in the queue if a new item is pushed into a full queue by incrementing the start index.

#### Note: The `WrappingOps` Trait <a name = "wrapping_ops"></a>

> The ringbuffer should be agnostic to the concrete `Index` type used. In order to be able to decrement and increment the start and end index, though, any concrete type needs to implement `wrapping_add` and `wrapping_sub`. Because `std` does not provide such a trait we need another way to require this behavior. One possbility would be using the [`num_traits` crate](https://crates.io/crates/num-traits), but to keep things simple here we just implement our own trait `WrappingOps` for the types we want to support (`u8`, `u16`, `u32` and `u64`).

Reviewer: Would maybe drop the `####` and make this a `> `
```suggestion
The ringbuffer should be agnostic to the concrete `Index` type used. In order to be able to decrement and increment the start and end index, though, any concrete type needs to implement `wrapping_add` and `wrapping_sub`. Because `std` does not provide such a trait, we need another way to require this behavior. One possbility would be using the [`num_traits` crate](https://crates.io/crates/num-traits), but to keep things simple here we just implement our own trait `WrappingOps` for the types we want to support (`u8`, `u16`, `u32` and `u64`).
```

```rust, ignore
impl<Item, B, M, Index> Drop for RingBufferTransient<Item, B, M, Index>
where // ... same where clause elided
{
	fn drop(&mut self) {
		<Self as RingBufferTrait<Item>>::commit(self);
	}
}
```

On `drop`, we `commit` the bounds to storage. With this implementation of `Drop`, `commit` is called when our transient goes out of scope, making sure that the storage state is consistent for the next call to the using pallet.

## Typical Usage <a name = "usage"></a>
The [`lib.rs`](https://github.com/substrate-developer-hub/recipes/tree/master/pallets/ringbuffer-queue/src/lib.rs) file of the pallet shows typical usage of the transient.

```rust, ignore
impl<T: Trait> Module<T> {
	fn queue_transient() -> Box<dyn RingBufferTrait<ValueStruct>> {
		Box::new(RingBufferTransient::<
			ValueStruct,
			<Self as Store>::BufferRange,
			<Self as Store>::BufferMap,
			BufferIndex,
		>::new())
	}
}
```

First we define a constructor function (`queue_transient`) so we don't have to specify the types every time we want to access the transient. This function constructs a ringbuffer transient and returns it as a boxed trait object.

> See [this part of the Rust book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch17-02-trait-objects.html#trait-objects-perform-dynamic-dispatch) for an explanation of why we need a boxed trait object (defined with the syntax `dyn TraitName`) when using dynamic dispatch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the Rust book's section on [trait objects](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch17-02-trait-objects.html#trait-objects-perform-dynamic-dispatch) for an explanation of why we need a boxed trait object (defined with the syntax `dyn TraitName`) when using dynamic dispatch.
```
